README.md, before:

# TransUNet
This repo holds code for [TransUNet: Transformers Make Strong Encoders for Medical Image Segmentation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2102.04306.pdf)

## Usage

### 1. Download Google pre-trained ViT models
* [Get models in this link](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/vit_models/): R50-ViT-B_16, ViT-B_16, ViT-L_16...
```bash
wget https://storage.googleapis.com/vit_models/imagenet21k/{MODEL_NAME}.npz &&
mkdir ../model/vit_checkpoint/imagenet21k &&
mv {MODEL_NAME}.npz ../model/vit_checkpoint/imagenet21k/{MODEL_NAME}.npz
```

### 2. Prepare data

All data are available: [BTCV preprocessed data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ACJEoTp-uqfFJ73qS3eUObQh52nGuzCd?usp=sharing) and [ACDC data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1KQcrci7aKsYZi1hQoZ3T3QUtcy7b--n4?usp=drive_link).

### Folder structure after setup

    .
    ├── data                   # Dataset used for training
    ├── model                    # Downloaded pre-trained ViT models
    ├── TransUNet                     # Source files 

### 3. Environment

Please prepare an environment with python=3.7, and then use the command "pip install -r requirements.txt" for the dependencies.

Notes: install the appropriate PyTorch version that matched with your CUDA version

### 4. Train/Test

- Run the train script on synapse dataset. The batch size can be reduced to 12 or 6 to save memory, and both can reach similar performance.

```bash
python train.py --dataset Synapse --vit_name R50-ViT-B_16
```

- Run the test script on synapse dataset. It supports testing for both 2D images and 3D volumes.

```bash
python test.py --dataset Synapse --vit_name R50-ViT-B_16
```

## Reference
* [Google ViT](https://github.com/google-research/vision_transformer)
* [ViT-pytorch](https://github.com/jeonsworld/ViT-pytorch)
* [segmentation_models.pytorch](https://github.com/qubvel/segmentation_models.pytorch)

## Citations

```bibtex
@article{chen2021transunet,
  title={TransUNet: Transformers Make Strong Encoders for Medical Image Segmentation},
  author={Chen, Jieneng and Lu, Yongyi and Yu, Qihang and Luo, Xiangde and Adeli, Ehsan and Wang, Yan and Lu, Le and Yuille, Alan L., and Zhou, Yuyin},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.04306},
  year={2021}
}
```

Commit message:

Addition notation in readme for custom dataset

README.md, after:

# TransUNet
This repo holds code for [TransUNet: Transformers Make Strong Encoders for Medical Image Segmentation](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2102.04306.pdf)

## Usage

### 1. Download Google pre-trained ViT models
* [Get models in this link](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/vit_models/): R50-ViT-B_16, ViT-B_16, ViT-L_16...
```bash
wget https://storage.googleapis.com/vit_models/imagenet21k/{MODEL_NAME}.npz &&
mkdir ../model/vit_checkpoint/imagenet21k &&
mv {MODEL_NAME}.npz ../model/vit_checkpoint/imagenet21k/{MODEL_NAME}.npz
```

### 2. Prepare data

All data are available: [BTCV preprocessed data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ACJEoTp-uqfFJ73qS3eUObQh52nGuzCd?usp=sharing) and [ACDC data](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1KQcrci7aKsYZi1hQoZ3T3QUtcy7b--n4?usp=drive_link).

New preprocessed dataset is Severstal, you can find the original data in [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/c/severstal-steel-defect-detection#) and convert using the (`custom_dataset.py`) as a converter
### Folder structure after setup

    .
    ├── data                   # Dataset used for training
    ├── model                    # Downloaded pre-trained ViT models
    ├── TransUNet                     # Source files 

### 3. Environment

Please prepare an environment with python=3.7, and then use the command "pip install -r requirements.txt" for the dependencies.

Notes: install the appropriate PyTorch version that matched with your CUDA version

### 4. Train/Test

- Run the train script on synapse dataset. The batch size can be reduced to 12 or 6 to save memory, and both can reach similar performance.

```bash
python train.py --dataset Synapse --vit_name R50-ViT-B_16
```

- Run the test script on synapse dataset. It supports testing for both 2D images and 3D volumes.

```bash
python test.py --dataset Synapse --vit_name R50-ViT-B_16
```

## Reference
* [Google ViT](https://github.com/google-research/vision_transformer)
* [ViT-pytorch](https://github.com/jeonsworld/ViT-pytorch)
* [segmentation_models.pytorch](https://github.com/qubvel/segmentation_models.pytorch)

## Citations

```bibtex
@article{chen2021transunet,
  title={TransUNet: Transformers Make Strong Encoders for Medical Image Segmentation},
  author={Chen, Jieneng and Lu, Yongyi and Yu, Qihang and Luo, Xiangde and Adeli, Ehsan and Wang, Yan and Lu, Le and Yuille, Alan L., and Zhou, Yuyin},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.04306},
  year={2021}
}
```
